# Image-Classification

We are Using a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) model for this project as its good for image classification tasks.

The model is structured sequentially, starting with three convolutional layers, each followed by max-pooling layers to reduce spatial dimensions. A Flatten layer converts the 2D feature maps into a 1D vector, which is then processed by a fully connected layer with ReLU activation. To prevent overfitting, a Dropout layer is included. Softmax function in used in the output layer as its good for multi-class classifications. The model is compiled with the Adam optimizer, sparse categorical crossentropy loss function, and accuracy as the evaluation metric.

first we loaded the images data of different animals and while loading we performed some pre-processing techniques to format our data into the required format. The pre-processing techniques that were used are renaming the category names to English, loading the images from folders into a numpy array, converting the image from BGR to RGB, resizing the image to 224 x 224 px while keeping the aspect ratio, centering the image, normalizing the RGB values to be between 0 and 1. Then we performed some Exploratory Data Analysis to see our data and gain some insights. Ater that we selected a deep learning model for our classification task, namely Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), as it performs decently on such image classification tasks. We then trained our model using the training data and kept note of the accuracy and loss as it trained. The loss steadly kept decreasing and the accuracy went up, as expected. We then evaluated our model using the confusion matrix and checking its accuracy on the testing data. It had an accuracy of about 72% on both training and testing data, which is pretty decent. To further improve the model, we could try tuning the model parameters and adding or removing some convolution layers. Also we could use more of the training data and include better images, so our model can learn better.
